@node overview
@chapter Overview

@verbatim
de-mur-rage

1: the detention of a ship by the freighter beyond the time allowed for loading, unloading, or sailing

2: a charge for detaining a ship, freight car, or truck
@end verbatim

This ERC20 smart contract implementation for the EVM imposes a demurrage on all held token balances.

The demurrage is a continuous value @emph{decay}, subtracted from all balances every minute.

Also. a time period is defined at contract creation time at which the difference between held balances and the demurrage can be withdrawn to a pre-selected address, which in turn can redistribute that token value.

In short: Everyone is taxed a little something every minute, and every so often a decision is made on how to redistribute that tax.


@section Features

@itemize
@item Continuous decay of all balances.
@item Capture and redistribution of decayed balances.
@item Per-minute decay resolution.
@item Minting and burning of vouchers.
@item Grant and revoke access to mint and burn vouchers.
@item Voucher expiration (modifiable anytime after publishing).
@item Supply cap (modifiable anytime after publishing).
@item Constant gas usage across exponential calculations.
@end itemize

@section Nomenclature

@table @samp
@item Demurrage
A percentage of token supply that will continuously be removed.
@item Demurrage Period
A period of time denominated in minutes after which demurraged amounts are available for redistribution.
@item Sink Account
The intermediate beneficiary of the demurraged amount, which may or may not redistribute value.
@item Base balance
The inflated balance of each used which is stored for bookkeeping.
@end table


